# Asp.NET-web-Api

# Chapter 2

- To create ASP.NET Core apps, we need to download and install the .NET Core
SDK, the .NET Core runtime, and the ASP.NET Core runtime (unless you
chose an IDE that automatically does those things, such as Visual Studio).

- We should also provide ourselves with a suitable IDE such as Visual Studio: a
comprehensive .NET development solution for Windows and macOS that we’ll
use throughout this book. Visual Studio can dramatically boost our productivity
and help us standardize our development processes thanks to built-in features
such as task runners, package managers, integrated source control, and syntax
highlighting.

- Visual Studio includes a lot of useful templates that we can use as boilerplate for
creating our apps, including the ASP.NET Core web API template, which is the
perfect choice to start our MyBGList web API project.

- Visual Studio’s ASP.NET Core web API template comes with a small group of
autogenerated files:

   – A startup file to set up services and middleware (Program.cs)
  
   – A settings file to launch the app with the development web server (launch-Settings.json)
  
   – A set of configuration files that store the app’s environment-specific settings
     (appsettings.json)
  
   – A POCO class to emulate a data object (WeatherForecast.cs)
  
   – A Controller class that can respond to simple HTTP requests with some
   sample JSON data (WeatherForecastController.cs)

- After a brief review of the template files and some minor code changes to
understand how each of them works, we can start replacing the built-in weather
forecast sample classes with some board-game-related classes.

 
 - Before going further, it may be useful to test our acquired knowledge with some
exercises, simulating a series of requests (backlog items) from the client. 
    – Depending on our confidence, we can try to fulfill them without any suggestions or follow some high-level         guidance.
    – Regardless of the chosen complexity level, performing such exercises is a
      great way to test our current skills and prepare for the topics yet to come.
